>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, let's go ahead and
look at this problem and
solution for
making render prop components.
So I'll run the tests with npm run test.
And swap the usage to
the exercise version.
We get our error.
It's unable to find a label
with the text of custom button.
And that's because despite the fact that
we are rendering a button with that label,
it can't find it because
our render is actually just
returning the switch component.
So let's work through this step by step so
we can really get
an understanding of how
the render prop pattern works.
So I'm actually gonna go ahead and
remove this just to,
oops, get rid of some additional stuff.
So the render prop pattern is,
I've found to be surprisingly simple.
And it's a lot simpler than
you would think of it first.
So what I'm gonna do to
illustrate this though,
is I'm gonna rename this render function.
I'm gonna call it render switch.
And then I'm gonna make
an actual render function.
And this is going to
return this.renderSwitch.
Okay, regular JavaScript stuff,
nothing fancy going on here.
You might be looking at that and
like, okay, that was pointless.
But hold on, stick with me.
So let's go ahead and,
instead of using this inside of
our render switch function,
let's use attributes.
So we'll pass in options.
And make this function a pure function
that accepts arguments, returns JSX.
Returns React elements.
So we're gonna need the on and the toggle.
So we'll just get rid of that,
and we'll get rid of that.
Okay, cool.
So now things are still, actually.
And we'll need to provide those,
so, on is this.state.on.
And toggle is this.toggle.
And now things are equally broken,
so so good so far [LAUGH].
If we look at the finished version,
though,
it still functions the way
that it did before.
So the next thing that is kind of
interesting is because this is now a pure
function, it doesn't use
the instance inside.
You don't see this inside of here.
When a method on a class doesn't use this,
then it doesn't need to be on the class.
So you can make it a static property.
So now I can say.
And actually, we'll have to make it
an assignment to an arrow function.
There we go.
And then we can say, toggle.renderSwitch.
Okay, it's still just as
broken as it was before, but
it still actually functions there.
Okay, so does it really need
to be on the toggle class?
Well, no, we can actually make
this a const and move it out.
And then just use render switch.
Okay, so
we're incrementally getting closer and
closer to what we're
supposed to be doing here.
It's a pure function, so it doesn't need
to be a part of the toggle instance or
even a part of the toggle class.
It's just an extra function
that is responsible for
the rendering of our component.
And all we have to do is pass in some
whatever that function needs to do
its rendering so
that it can be a pure function.
So yeah, still equally functional and
broken at the same time, ha.
Okay, great.
So what if instead of referencing
renderSwitch inside of
the scope of this module,
what if we accepted it as a prop instead?
this.props.renderSwitch.
And then in our usage, we'll just
pretend this isn't here for a second.
We'll return Toggle onToggle.
And then the renderSwitch prop,
what should we assign that to?
Well, let's just continue
with our iterating on this.
We'll assign it to the same
thing we had before.
So it should be functionally
equivalent to what we had before.
We have not changed any
of the functionality
from the very start of this component.
It functions exactly
the same as it did before.
Okay, well, this is a prop.
And children is actually a prop.
And so we could change this to childrren.
And then if you recall earlier,
somebody asked a question about
the React.chilrdren.map and
why would you use that over array.map.
Well, that's because the children
prop will either be an array of all
the items that you pass it or it will
just be the one item that you've passed.
And so in this case, we're actually
explicitly passing a single item, so
we can call it directly, okay.
So we're just passing render switch.
And that will still
function as it did before.
And actually, what's interesting is
that this is now using render props.
So the rendering responsibility
is now under the ownership
of the user and
not the component implementation.
And so at this point I can refactor this.
Because children is the implicit
prop between the opening and
closing of your JSX.
>> Kent C. Dodds: That is functionally
equivalent to what we just had.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, cool.
So often with render props, you're
gonna see, you're not gonna actually
declare the function outside,
you'll have it declared inline.
So we could just take this,
cut it out and stick it right there.
Okay, so it's still broken.
But let's just, really quick,
switch to our other implementation.
And now it works.
>> Kent C. Dodds: I'm
seeing some head nods, so that's good.
So we didn't actually do a whole lot.
Like the whole purpose of this is to say,
hey, I'll be in charge of your state.
You be in charge of rendering.
And what's really cool about this, and
when I take a step back and think, okay,
how does this pattern
compare to other things?
If I can create another component that's
built on top of this one that exposes
the same API as the original, that's when
I know I've got a really good pattern.
And so I could say [INAUDIBLE], or
we'll just do a function, OriginalToggle.
And this'll take the same defaults here.
And we'll just return.
Actually here we don't need the defaults,
we'll just say props.
And we'll return Toggle.
And inside of here we'll take our on and
toggle.
Destructure those off.
And then render this switch.
Oops, not a switch expression.
With on is on and on click is toggle.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
these props,
we'll just spread across here.
And then I can actually use.
I'll switch this usage here, return
toggle.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
we have the same original implementation.
So if you don't like
the verbosity of a render prop,
you just make another component
that uses that render prop, and
then you can use the nice, cleaner,
smaller API that you're looking for.
Without sacrificing
the flexibility that render props
provide.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
this is why I love render props.
Because they serve as a really good
foundation for a component that wants to
share, to control its logic, and
allow total flexibility of the UI.